---

title: "University Life Review : Part 1"
date: 2022-02-28 13:00:00 +0600
categories: [miscellaneous]
tags: [miscellaneous]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
author:
  name: Nazia Shehnaz Joynab
toc: false
pin: false
comments: true
---

Mind is a warehouse of thoughts about how it could have gone right rather than wrong all along the way. I still have one year for my varsity life to end. But habitually I don’t stop overthinking you know, especially when it’s about acknowledging my mistakes and stopping others who are on the verge of making the same mistake
( :: facepalm :: ).

A common question comes to every sophomore’s mind whenever they see their own coursemates or seniors literally balancing out everything: academic studies, projects, contests, cultural or sports or any other activity so well : ```“HOW DO THEY EVEN MANAGE TO GET ALL THESE THINGS DONE SO GRACEFULLY? WHY CAN’T I?”```
Turns out, the answer lies within the context of five things:

```1. Fear of missing out:```
Social Media is a great medium of showcasing your talent, but eventually it affects others to think about trying out those things which YOU are excellent at. The only advantage of FOMO is you invest a good amount of time finding your actual interest and deep dive into the facts about how to be excellent in that field. But before doing that, you really need to ask yourself at least 10 times: ```“DO I ACTUALLY WANT TO DO THIS?”``` . Do your own research before giving priority to extracurricular tasks as “Love at first sight is temporary”  but “permanent always originates from heart xD”.

```2. The fear of not getting a job after graduation:```
The reasons behind this fear are many. You are the only child of your family, you have the fear of being the financial support of your family as soon as you graduate. You belong to a middle class family, you have this urge to be independent and self reliant. But ask yourself, if you get a good job after grad which brings you money but not mental peace bcoz you do not really fit into that or you have completely/partially lost interest while pursuing it, will it be the right decision to continue it further?

```3. Lack of self urge to lead/involve in a community activity/project:```
My past experience tells me, unless it’s a personal academic project, you will be hoping that it will end with the course of time anyhow. But the effect of a communal project is huge. The urge to make an impossible task possible, the self confidence required to guide others while learning things on his/her own, the satisfaction earnt after the task/project is completed successfully is all that we want at the end of the day.

```4. Taking revenge from enemy by achieving success:```
Whether you agree with me or not, yes it’s a good reason for someone to reach the highest peak of his/her life. Getting humiliated, underestimated takes a good toll on the laziness of someone to achieve something that he thought to be impossible once.

```5. Last but not the least; Not having the ability to say ‘NO’ :```
It’s actually a weakness, a good one I must say. You need to know which tasks are actually relevant with your track and a polite way to say no to someone. The decision-taking ability and being firm on that decision doesn’t come in your academic curriculum so better learn it in your own way.

Now to sum up the answer to the question I asked in the second paragraph,
Yes it’s possible to be dynamic at both academics and other stuff, you just need a pinch of salt from the above five points, that’s all.
